
Associate Pianists

Providing top-level accompaniment at the NCC



VISION




REHEARSAL PROCEDURE



Preparation

Whenever possible, scores will be sent to the pianist a minimum of two (2) weeks in advance of the 1st rehearsal.
Make sure to prepare the accompaniment at home, and spend time studying and practicing the score.
In addition to learning the notes, it is highly recommended to listen to recordings of the piece whenever possible so that the pianist is not just hitting notes on the page, but actually knows how the piece should sound, as well as be familiar with the character of the music.
For instance, if a pianist has been sent an SSA arrangement of Lacrymosa from Mozart's Requiem, he or she should listen to this movement from the original Mozart Requiem, in order to get a strong sense of how this music was originally conceived by the composer. This will help shape how the pianist translates the adapted arrangement, recreating the features of the original orchestration.
Unless a pianist has just been given the music on the spot, the quality of playing should never feel like "sight-reading." The music should feel polished, artistically/sensitively executed, and fully-prepared.
With every score, pianists must be ready to do any of the following if/when requested by the conductor:
Play the piece through as a piano solo, demonstrating for the students how the full score should sound, showing the beautiful features of the music, combining BOTH the accompaniment and the vocal lines.
Play one or more vocal lines at a time without the accompaniment.
Play one or more vocal lines at a time, while playing as much of the accompaniment as possible.
Arrival 

Associate pianists should be in place no later than five (5) minutes prior to the beginning of any given session.
In an emergency situation where you are running late, make sure to notify Chelsea Morel at (760) 831-4505.
If you are providing a substitute for the day, please provide the substitute’s contact information (e-mail and phone) at least one (1) to two (2) weeks prior to the date of your absence. This information should be e-mailed to Chelsea Morel (cmorel@ncchorus.com), and CC'd to the director of your ensemble.
Accompanying at Rehearsal

Make sure the piano is well-positioned, and that you can see/hear the conductor as clearly as possible. If you are not satisfied with the position of the piano upon your arrival, alert the conductor so that it can be moved.
During rehearsal, listen closely and follow the conductor's rehearsal path, always trying to predict where he/she will start next.
Once the conductor has announced where to begin, !!!!always immediately give the pitches to the chorus!!!!. When giving pitches, !!!always give them from the lowest pitch to the highest!!!. When giving pitches, play just loudly enough for the singers to hear the notes, but nothing more.
Make sure to watch the conductor closely during any tempo changes, measures marked with ritardando, accelerando, as well as going into and out of fermati.
When playing individual lines, unless otherwise directed by the conductor, always play other prominent musical lines happening in the music at the same time, so that the singers get a sense of where they are, how their line fits into what else is going on in the score, and what they can expect to hear once the entire thing is put together.
Make sure to always have a pencil on hand, to make any pertinent notations in the score, as well as any errors/problems that you may wish to draw to the conductor's attention.
Make sure to have any mobile phones silenced and put away during the rehearsal; outside of emergency, use of such devices in front of the students is not permitted except at the break.

RESULTS


Signs that indicate the accompanying is being executed well

Rehearsal moves at a fast and efficient pace, with an accelerated mode of learning for the students.
Conductor does minimal talking to the pianist, and nearly 100% of the conductor's focus is on the chorus.
The piano playing sounds beautiful, polished, and serves to inspire the students' love and learning of the piece.
Mistakes are rare, and it feels like the pianist is in sync with the conductor.


Signs that indicate the accompanying is NOT being executed well

Rehearsal is continually disrupted, because conductor is having to give too much/frequent instruction to the pianist.
Pitches are not being given in a timely manner, or in the manner prescribed.
Pianist is not following the path of the rehearsal and frequently is unaware of where the conductor is starting, causing disruptions and delays, breaking the flow of the rehearsal and slowing down its productivity.
Pianist does not know how the music should go; seems like the pianist has never heard the piece; pianist has not prepared the score; pianist is leaving out a lot of the notes written in the music; pianist is not accurately representing how the score should sound; pianist is making many errors and playing wrong notes, which is confusing the students.
Pianist and conductor are not in sync; pianist is not following the beat.


FAQ'S



What if I notice that the piano is out of tune?

Please notify the condutor immediately, and send an e-mail to Chelsea Morel (cmorel@ncchorus.com); the NCC will have the instrument tuned as soon as possible.
What if I wish for the conductor to give me clearer beat patterns, or if I need clarification regarding certain parts of the music?

Feel free to communicate any musical needs to the conductor. The success of the music is collaborative effort, and conductors are instructed to work closely with pianists to ensure fluidity and syncronicity in the music.


