How to Prepare for Board Meetings

Laying the foundation for good governance

 

VISION

The NCC Board of Directors meets quarterly to ensure oversight of the organizations financial, legal and operational procedures. A functional board of directors is required by law for every non-profit organization, and a thriving board helps the organization in a number of essential ways.

 

PROCEDURE

·         Board meeting dates are set either in person at a meeting, or by e-mail consensus.

·         Two (2) weeks before the meeting date, an e-mail reminder is sent to all Directors, based on the following template:

 

Dear Directors,

I am writing to remind you that the next quarterly meeting of the Board of Directors of the National Children’s Chorus will be held on Monday, October 23, 2017 at 10:00 AM, at the offices of Murphy O’Brien Public Relations:


11444 W. Olympic Blvd., Suite 600

Los Angeles, CA 90064


Directions to Murphy O’Brien are attached for reference. We will send the agenda and further materials closer to the meeting date, but wanted to be sure your calendars were marked.

We look forward to seeing you soon!

All the best,

 

[signature]

 

·         At least three (3) days before the meeting, a second reminder is sent, along with a PDF package of meeting materials. The second reminder e-mail is based on the following template:

 

Dear Directors,




11444 W. Olympic Blvd., Suite 600

Los Angeles, CA 90064





I look forward to seeing you soon!

All the best,

 

[signature]

 

 

Board Package Contents

 

·         The PDF package for board members should include the following:

o    Agenda for current meeting

o    Copy of minutes from previous meeting

o    Financial Reports - These should be collapsed into major account categories. Click here to download a sample. The Financial Reports included in the board package are:

§  Statement of Financial position through prior month end (Summary)

§  Statement of Activities (Summary)

§  Profit & Loss Budget vs. Actual (Summary)

o    Any other documents or policies which must receive review or vote (Audit, tax return, etc).

·         The PDF should be a single document clearly labeled with the meeting date, for example: “Board Package 10_23_17.pdf”. Multiple PDF files should be combined into a single PDF for convenient viewing.

·         Hard copies of the board package should be printed out, hole punched, and brought to the board meeting for disbursal to the directors.