VISION

 



 

PROCEDURE

 

Preparation 










Rehearsal Protocols

 

Begin and end rehearsals on time. 
We run rehearsals with great precision. If your rehearsal is from 4:30-6:00 PM, the downbeat occurs at 4:30 PM sharp and dismissal is promptly at 6:00 PM. 
Arrival - please arrive at least fifteen (15) minutes prior to your rehearsal to check your room and prepare yourself for the entrance of students.
Rehearsal Pace
Rehearsals should be run at a pace which consistently keeps the attention of, engages and inspires the students
Bel Canto Technique
The Bel Canto singing technique should be taught
Deep breath support
Open vowels
Lifted soft palate
Chiaroscuro  - placement of bright and dark
Clear and precise diction
Additional Protocol

Students refer to all instructors and staff members by last names. i.e.: Dr. Blackstone, Mrs. Fenderson, etc. 
No cell phones/tablets are allowed during NCC rehearsals
If you see students playing with their devices at rehearsal or break time, please confiscate the item(s) and return them at dismissal. 
Students are with us to learn the art of music making and to interact with one another socially at break time. 
Cell phones may be used for emergencies only
Break Time
Between Repertoire Rehearsals and Kodaly/Musicianship Classes students take a break. Please be sure to assist in monitoring breaks. There will also be PAs and parent chaperones to assist. 
Monitor behavior. No physical contact allowed between students.
If you observe any physical altercation, please stop it immediately and report it to Dr. Blackstone and Chelsea Morel.
Monitor Social Interactions 
Make sure students are integrating - no student should feel left out or be sitting alone.
No use of cell phones/tablets
Snack
Students may bring a healthy snack and water for break time. (Water should be brought to all rehearsals and can be taken during classes as needed). Food is consumed only at break. No chocolate, dairy or junk food allowed (no Cheetos, cookies, candy, etc.) Fruits and veggies are best. 
Restrooms
Students should use the restrooms at break time.
If there is an emergency, a student may leave your rehearsal room or Kodaly class.
If a student must leave your class, he/she would raise an index finger in the air to signify the need to leave the room. You may nod yes to the student to affirm the request. This technique avoids having to stop your rehearsal to answer the student’s question “May I go to the restroom?”  
Behavior
The NCC promotes excellence and professionalism at all times. Please ask your students to maintain the highest qualities of respect, discipline and maturity always. Whether they are five (5) or fifteen (15) years old, we are teaching what it means to be a true professional. Once in the Senior Division, these students will be performing at Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center, Walt Disney Concert Hall, Royce Hall, The Hollywood Bowl and around the world!
If a child child is having repeated behavior issues in class -
Please immediately e-mail the parents to let them know of the situation so that a workable solution can be found quickly. Always Cc Dr. Blackstone
A student may be asked to leave the room in order to collect themselves and then return to class when he/she is ready to participate without further disruption to the rehearsal flow. 
Please ask a chaperone outside your door for assistance. 
If a student is asked to leave the room, a follow up e-mail to the parents should be sent within 24 hours.
If a student professes that they "Do Not Want To Be There"
Send the student out of the rehearsal room to a chaperone
The student is to be brought to the front desk and the parent must be called for immediate pick up
Our policy is to not teach students who do not want to participate
Stage Protocol
Immediately begin teaching the students professional decorum for stage - how to stand tall in a singer’s posture, one foot slightly in front of the other, feet hip/shoulder distance apart, no scratching/touching the face or body and no wiggling. 
NO waving to audience members
I have included a link to our recent Spring Showcase in LA. Please download the concert and watch all of our ensembles, Prelude Level through Premier Ensemble, so that you may learn our performance protocol.
 https://www.dropbox.com/s/2bhyldq29t564ow/NCC_SpringShowcase_Final.mp4?dl=0 
The concert may not show up in full on the Dropbox website. To see all ensembles, please download the entire file to your computers. The concert is 1 hour, 50 minutes. 
Buddy System
Please implement a Buddy System at the start of each season, pairing new students with returning students. This helps make new students (and newly promoted students to your ensemble) feel welcome!
CLOSED Rehearsals
All NCC rehearsals/classes are closed. No observation is allowed. Video taping is not allowed. Parents and/or guests are not permitted to enter the rooms.
 

Music Binders
On the first day of classes, you will hand out the students’ music. (Prelude Level does not receive scores)
For returning students, they should have their White Music Binder with them.
They will receive a cover sheet with their name on it (if newly promoted to your ensemble) along with the hole punched octavos.
Some will forget their white binders, so please instruct them to carefully place their music in their bags to take home (and then place in the white binder prior to the next rehearsal). 
If the students say they don’t have a white binder, please instruct them to have their parent buy a new one from our website.
For NEW students, they will receive the white binder, cover sheet and the octavos.
Please ask that all students place a pencil in their binders. I prefer that students hang a mechanical pencil with a metal hook from one the rings in the binder. (Easy to access, won’t break and will not be lost)
 

Golden Apple Award
Each month, the ACs award one (1) student from their ensemble a Golden Apple Award for excellence in participation. Please immediately be watching for the student who will receive your September Golden Apple!
 

Musical Terms Sheet
Students will receive copies of the Musical Terms Sheet. Please use this in your rehearsals to assist in teaching musical terminology to your singers.
 

RESULTS

 

Signs that indicate the rehearsal is being executed well:

Students are joyful and exhilarated throughout rehearsal and upon dismissal
Bel Canto Technique and musicianship skills are successfully taught so that student/ensemble performance in the Showcase demonstrates mastery appropriate for age and skill level
Behavior issues and disruptions to class are handled swiftly and professionally. Follow up e-mails handled within 24 hours
Within a year of study, students are fully prepared musically, energetically and emotionally to receive a promotion to the next ensemble level